Config file formalization and credential sets: part 3, credential sets (#3713)
chef/inspec: docs/config.md

# The InSpec Configuration File

This documents the InSpec configuration file format introduced in version 3.5 of InSpec.

## Config File Location

By default, InSpec looks for a config file in `~/.inspec/config.json`.  InSpec does not need a configuration file to run.

You may also specify the location using `--config`.  For example, to run the shell using a config file in `/etc/inspec`, use `inspec shell --config /etc/inspec/config.json`.

## Config File Format Versions

Config files must contain a top-level key, `version`, which indicates the file format. This allows us to add new fields without breaking old installations.

## Version 1.1

### Complete Example

```
{
  "version": "1.1",
  "cli_options":{
    "color": "true"
  },
  "credentials": {
    "ssh": {
      "my-target": {
        "host":"somewhere.there.com",
        "user":"bob"
      }
    }
  },
  "reporter": {
    "automate" : {
    "stdout" : false,
    "url" : "https://YOUR_A2_URL/data-collector/v0/",

>     "token" : "YOUR_A2_ADMIN_TOKEN",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    "token" : "YOUR_A2_API_TOKEN",
```

    "insecure" : true,
    "node_name" : "inspec_test_node",
    "environment" : "prod"
  }
}
```

> ### version

Reviewer 2: Let's consider using a definition list for these:

```
version
: Should have the value '1.1'
```

Reviewer 3: Seconded on the definition list suggestion.

Should have the value '1.1'.

### cli_options

> In this key, you can place any long-form command line option, without the leading dashes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Any long-form command line options, without the leading dashes.
```

### credentials

> Under this key, you may store any Train-transport-specific options.  You store the options keyed first by transport name, then by a name you choose to refer to them later.  The combination of transport name and your chosen name can be used in the `--target` option to `inspec exec`, as `--target transport-name://connection-name`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Train-transport-specific options.  Store the options keyed first by transport name, then by a name you'll use later on.  The combination of transport name and your chosen name can be used in the `--target` option to `inspec exec`, as `--target transport-name://connection-name`.
```
Use "...then a name for the connection" if it is always a connection-name.

> Under this key, you may store any Train-transport-specific options.  You store the options keyed first by transport name, then by a name you choose to refer to them later.  The combination of transport name and your chosen name can be used in the `--target` option to `inspec exec`, as `--target transport-name://connection-name`.

Reviewer: Thoughts on:

```suggestion
Under this key, you may store any Train-transport-specific options.  You store the options keyed first by transport name, then by a name you choose to refer to them later.  The combination of transport name and your chosen name can be used in the `--target` option to `inspec exec`, as `--target transport_name://credset`.
```

For example, if the config file contains:

```
{
  "credentials": {
    "winrm": {
      "myconn": {
        "user": "Administrator",
        "host": "prod01.east.example.com",
        "disable_sspi": true,
        "connection_retries": 10
      }
    }
  }
}
```

> Then you can use `--target winrm://myconn` to connect to the host, with the given extra options.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Then use `--target winrm://myconn` to connect to the host, with the given extra options.
```

Each Train transport offers a variety of options. By using the credential set facility, you are able to easily set options that are not accessible via the Train URI.

You may have as many credential sets in the config file as you require.

If you use a target URI and the portion after the `://` cannot be matched to credential set name, InSpec will send the URI to Train to be parsed as a Train URI.  Thus, you can still do `ssh://someuser@myhost.com`.

You can use a credential set, and then override individual options using command line options.

> Credential sets are intended to work hand-in-hand with the underlying credentials storage facility of the transport. For example, if you have a `~/.ssh/config` file specifying that the sally-key.pem file should be used with the host `somehost.com`, and you have a credential set that specifies that host, then when Train tries to connect to that host, the SSH library will automatically use the SSH config file to use the indicated key.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Credential sets are intended to work hand-in-hand with the underlying credentials storage facility of the transport. 
For example, if your `~/.ssh/config` file specifies using `sally-key.pem` file with the host `somehost.com`, and you also have a credential set specifying that host, then when Train tries to connect to that host, the SSH library will automatically use the SSH config file with the indicated key.
```

Author: Each paragraph here describes a feature of the credset system.  Here, we're describing the transport-specific fallback feature, and the example given is intended to illustrate just that one feature.

Reviewer 3: @clintoncwolfe - Kimberly is just correcting the passive tense in the sentence structure. The correction still has your great content contribution.

Author: Ahh, it looks like the suggestion was to split the para.  Gotcha.
